# formation-control
During the Spring 2022, the Task Allocation team developed different algorithms to understand how drones communicate with one another and their efficiency. This specific algorithm is called Asynchronous Consensus-Based Bundle Algorithm (ACBBA). 
ACBBA takes into consideration all existing drones and targets and identifies which assignments of drones to targets would be the most efficient, which suggests a communication between all the drones. The foundation of this algorithm is the Consensus-Based Auction Algorithm (CBAA) which is a single-task assignment where the drones find the closest target for their respective position and claim the bid for it. 
ACBBA is a multi-task assignment algorithm versus CBAA is a single-task assignment algorithm. What this means is that CBAA can only assign one drone to one target, ACBAA can assign a single drone to multiple targets if it is more efficient. 
In order to develop the algorithm for ACBBA, there has to be a bundle list and path list created, where the path list bids for a specific path; and based on the outcome of the bid compared to other path list bids will assign the path to each respective drone. 
After several various other implementations of converting the existing pseudocode to code, I was unsuccessful in developing the algorithm due to my lack in expertise. So I decided to formulate the algorithm in a manner in which I would be able to understand it and code it. 
Rather than creating a Path List, within my generate bids function I used a nested loop which would consider the distance for each drone to each target and sum them to find the overall travel cost, which would theoretically be the bid from the path list. Then by altering the location of each drone to its next closest target, the code would be able to identify whether the current drone is closer to a target than the other drones. This was a simple improvement upon the CBAA platform thus the foundation of the algorithm is very similar. 
This algorithm proved to work for the most part when the task assignments were different and more optimal compared to CBAA. Rather than considering drone by drone, there was communication amongst the drones. 
However, ACBBA is a multi-task assignment and in most optimal situations having one drone go to two targets is less efficient than having each drone go to a target. Thus it is difficult to identify whether the drones can be in a multi-task situation or not. In the existing example code, if the number of drones is altered it throws several errors, so a test case must be created to determine its multi-task functionality. If multi-task assignment doesn't work, it is because the Determine Task List function is only output one drone and one target, and that must be modified to output one drone, multiple targets. 
It is also crucial to look more in-depth into phase 2 of ACBBA since the implementation of it is different from CBAA however, ACBBA is currently using CBAA's phase 2 to assign tasks. This could also fix the multi-task assignment issue or some other existing bugs in multi-task tests.  
